Hype up Kestrel features in overview (#28937)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/servers/kestrel.md

ms.date: 04/04/2023
uid: fundamentals/servers/kestrel
---
# Kestrel web server in ASP.NET Core

By [Tom Dykstra](https://github.com/tdykstra), [Chris Ross](https://github.com/Tratcher), and [Stephen Halter](https://twitter.com/halter73)

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

Kestrel is a cross-platform [web server for ASP.NET Core](xref:fundamentals/servers/index). Kestrel is the recommended server for ASP.NET Core, and it's configured by default in ASP.NET Core project templates.

Some of the features of ASP.NET Core Kestrel server include:

* **Cross-platform:** Kestrel is a cross-platform web server that runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS. Developers can choose their preferred operating system for hosting ASP.NET Core apps.
* **High performance:** Kestrel is optimized to handle a large number of concurrent connections efficiently. It's ideal for building high-performance web apps and APIs.
* **Lightweight:** Kestrel has a small footprint. It's optimized for running in resource-constrained environments, such as containers and edge devices.

> * **Secure by default:** Kestrel supports HTTPS and is hardened against web server vulnerabilities. It's a secure choice for hosting web applications.

Author: @blowdart How do you feel about this statement?

Reviewer: "Supports HTTPS" seems like a minimal requirement for any web server isn't it? Would anyone wonder whether it did?

Author: A web server doesn't have to support TLS/HTTPS. It's quite common to have TLS termination happen at a reverse proxy and then forward the request to the app as plaintext HTTP.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TLS_termination_proxy

* **Wide protocol support:** Kestrel supports common web protocols, including:
  * HTTP/1.1, [HTTP/2](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/http2) and [HTTP/3](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/http3)
  * [WebSockets](xref:fundamentals/websockets)
* **Integration with ASP.NET Core:** Seamless integration with other ASP.NET Core components, such as the middleware pipeline, dependency injection, and configuration system.
* **Flexible workloads**: Kestrel supports many workloads:

>   * ASP.NET app frameworks such as Minimal APIs, MVC, Razor pages, SignalR, Blazor and gRPC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * ASP.NET app frameworks such as Minimal APIs, MVC, Razor pages, SignalR, Blazor, and gRPC.
```

  * Building a reverse proxy with [YARP](https://github.com/microsoft/reverse-proxy).

> * **Extensibility:** Kestrel allows developers to customize its behavior through configuration, middleware and custom transports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Extensibility:** Kestrel allows developers to customize its behavior through configuration, middleware, and custom transports.
```

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

Kestrel is a cross-platform [web server for ASP.NET Core](xref:fundamentals/servers/index). Kestrel is the recommended server for ASP.NET Core, and it's configured by default in ASP.NET Core project templates.

Some of the best features of ASP.NET Core Kestrel server include:

> * **Cross-platform:** Kestrel is a cross-platform web server that can run on Windows, Linux, and macOS, making it highly versatile and allowing developers to choose their preferred operating system for hosting ASP.NET Core applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Cross-platform:** Kestrel is a cross-platform web server that runs on Windows, Linux, and macOS. Developers can choose their preferred operating system for hosting ASP.NET Core apps.
```

> * **High performance:** Kestrel is designed for high performance and is optimized to handle a large number of concurrent connections efficiently, making it ideal for building high-performance web applications and APIs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **High performance:** Kestrel is designed for high performance and is optimized to handle a large number of concurrent connections efficiently. It's ideal for building high-performance web apps and APIs.
```

> * **Lightweight:** Kestrel is a lightweight web server that has a small footprint, making it suitable for running in resource-constrained environments, such as containers and edge devices.
> * **Secure by default:** Kestrel supports HTTPS and is hardened against common web vulnerabilities, making it a secure choice for hosting web applications.
> * **Wide protocol support:** Kestrel supports common web protocols, including:
>   * HTTP/1.1
>   * [HTTP/2](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/http2)
>   * [HTTP/3](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/http3)
>   * [WebSockets](xref:fundamentals/websockets)
> * **Integration with ASP.NET Core:** Seamless integration with other ASP.NET Core components, such as the middleware pipeline, dependency injection, and configuration system.
> * **Extensibility:** Kestrel is highly extensible, allowing developers to customize its connection pipeline and transports.
> * **Performance diagnostics:** Kestrel provides built-in performance diagnostics features, such as logging and metrics, which allow developers to monitor and troubleshoot the performance of their web applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Lightweight:** Kestrel is a lightweight web server that has a small footprint. It's optimized for running in resource-constrained environments, such as containers and edge devices.
* **Secure by default:** Kestrel supports HTTPS and is hardened against common web vulnerabilities. It's a secure choice for hosting web apps.
* **Wide protocol support:** Kestrel supports common web protocols, including:
  * HTTP/1.1
  * [HTTP/2](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/http2)
  * [HTTP/3](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/http3)
  * [WebSockets](xref:fundamentals/websockets)
* **Integration with ASP.NET Core:** Seamless integration with other ASP.NET Core components, such as the middleware pipeline, dependency injection, and configuration system.
* **Extensibility:** Kestrel is highly extensible, allowing developers to customize its connection pipeline and transports.
* **Performance diagnostics:** Kestrel provides built-in performance diagnostics features, such as logging and metrics. Developers can monitor and troubleshoot the performance of web apps.
```

`It's optimized` might be too strong, but suitable is too weak.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-8.0"

Kestrel is a cross-platform [web server for ASP.NET Core](xref:fundamentals/servers/index). Kestrel is the recommended server for ASP.NET Core, and it's configured by default in ASP.NET Core project templates.

> Some of the best features of ASP.NET Core Kestrel server include:

Reviewer 4: "best" sounds like marketing language
```suggestion
Some of the features of ASP.NET Core Kestrel server include:
```

Reviewer 3: Agreed, if you must use an adjective, notable maybe. But best to just drop best.

* **Cross-platform:** Kestrel is a cross-platform web server that can run on Windows, Linux, and macOS, making it highly versatile and allowing developers to choose their preferred operating system for hosting ASP.NET Core applications.

> * **High performance:** Kestrel is designed for high performance and is optimized to handle a large number of concurrent connections efficiently, making it ideal for building high-performance web applications and APIs.

Reviewer 4: reducing repetition
```suggestion
* **High performance:** Kestrel is optimized to handle a large number of concurrent connections efficiently, making it ideal for building high-performance web applications and APIs.
```

> * **Lightweight:** Kestrel is a lightweight web server that has a small footprint, making it suitable for running in resource-constrained environments, such as containers and edge devices.

Reviewer 4: reducing repetition
```suggestion
* **Lightweight:** Kestrel has a small footprint, making it suitable for running in resource-constrained environments, such as containers and edge devices.
```

> * **Extensibility:** Kestrel is highly extensible, allowing developers to customize its behavior through middleware, which can be used to handle authentication, routing, caching, and other functionalities.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Extensibility:** Kestrel allows developers to customize its behavior through middleware, which can be used to handle authentication, routing, caching, and other functionalities.
```
